Re-design TAP 15 metadata format (#154)
theupdateframework/taps: tap15.md

# Specification

This TAP extends delegations by adding a `succinct_roles` field
that includes the following:

```
"succinct_roles" : {
       "keyids" : [ KEYID, ... ] ,
       "threshold" : THRESHOLD,
       "prefix_bit_length": BIT_LENGTH,
       "name_prefix": NAME_PREFIX,
   }

```

Where 2^BIT_LENGTH is the number of bins. BIT_LENGTH must be an
integer between 1 and 32 (inclusive).

KEYID and THRESHOLD have the same definitions as in
previous delegations.

When a delegation contains this field, it represents delegations to
2^BIT_LENGTH bins that use the included keyids and threshold. All

> succinct hashed bin delegations will be terminating. The

Reviewer: Hmm, I wonder if this is correct. It seems to prevent the idea of using e.g. multiple succinct delegations (say, "targets" delegating to "succinct1" and "succinct2" using normal non terminating delegations, and both of those contain a succinct_roles)? I think succinct delegations could even be always non-terminating as the parent delegation could specify terminating if it wants to...

(I admit I still don't know if multiple succinct delegations has a use case, just pointing this out)

Author: Hmm, I think we can safely remove the option for multiple succinct delegations using the same workaround as for using both `roles` and `succinct_roles` (setting up multiple intermediate roles). I don't think that this will be common, and having only one succinct delegation per role simplifies the mechanism a lot.

That said, I don't have a strong preference for making these always terminating, it just seemed like a way to simplify the metadata.

Reviewer: I wasn't trying to suggest multiple succinct delegations in one metadata; I was talking about a "normal" role that delegates to two roles that are both succinct. If they are automatically terminating, then that setup makes no sense: I think they should either always be non-terminating (as the parent delegation can always terminate if it wants to) or should include the terminating field.

# Specification

This TAP extends delegations by adding a `succinct_roles` field
that includes the following:

```
"succinct_roles" : {
       "keyids" : [ KEYID, ... ] ,
       "threshold" : THRESHOLD,
       "bit_length": BIT_LENGTH,
       "name_prefix": NAME_PREFIX,
   }

```

Where 2^BIT_LENGTH is the number of bins. BIT_LENGTH must be an
integer between 1 and 32 (inclusive).

KEYID and THRESHOLD have the same definitions as in
previous delegations.

When a delegation contains this field, it represents delegations to
2^BIT_LENGTH bins that use the included keyids and threshold. All
succinct hashed bin delegations will be non-terminating. If a user
would like succinct delegations to be terminating, they may add the
terminating flag in either the parent delegation or in the individual bins. The
path_hash_prefixes and name for each

> bin will be determined using the BIT_LENGTH and NAME_PREFIX.

Author: Correct. I was referring to how the rolename is generated, but I think it's just confusing to put this here when it's already described a couple of paragraphs below

# Specification

This TAP extends delegations by adding a `succinct_roles` field
that includes the following:

```
"succinct_roles" : {
       "keyids" : [ KEYID, ... ] ,
       "threshold" : THRESHOLD,
       "bit_length": BIT_LENGTH,
       "name_prefix": NAME_PREFIX,
   }

```

Where 2^BIT_LENGTH is the number of bins. BIT_LENGTH must be an
integer between 1 and 32 (inclusive).

KEYID and THRESHOLD have the same definitions as in
previous delegations.

When a delegation contains this field, it represents delegations to

> 2^BIT_LENGTH bins that use the included keyids and threshold. All

Reviewer 2: Nit: worth emphasising that all of the 2^BIT_LENGTH bins use the same keyids and threshold?
```suggestion
2^BIT_LENGTH bins which all use the specified keyids and threshold. All
```

With the addition of succinct hashed bins, the delegation will contain:

```
{
  "keys" : {
      KEYID : KEY,
      ...
  },
  ("roles" : [
    {
      "name": ROLENAME,
      "keyids" : [ KEYID, ... ] ,
      "threshold" : THRESHOLD,
      ("path_hash_prefixes" : [ HEX_DIGEST, ... ] |
      "paths" : [ PATHPATTERN, ... ]),
      "terminating": TERMINATING,
    },
    ...

>   ],)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ],) |
```
as it's one of `roles` or `succinct_roles`

>   ],) |
>   ("succinct_roles" : {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  ], |
  "succinct_roles" : {
```

Not sure if this is correct, but it's consistent with `("path_hash_prefixes": ... | "paths": ...)` above, where we don't group the individual OR'ed elements but the whole thing.

         "keyids" : [ KEYID, ... ] ,
         "threshold" : THRESHOLD,
         "bit_length": BIT_LENGTH,
         "name_prefix": NAME_PREFIX,
     },)
}
 ```

 Eventually, the `path_hash_prefixes` field in `roles` MAY be deprecated in favor of `succinct_roles`, but it may be kept for backwards compatibility.

 Using succinct hashed bin delegations, the delegating metadata from the
 motivating example will contain:

 <pre><code>
 "delegations":{ "keys" : {
        abc123 : abcdef123456,
        },
    "succinct_roles" : {
        "keyids" : [ abc123 ] ,
        "threshold" : 1,

>         "bit_length": 16,

Reviewer 3: The TAP does not mandate this, but for the implementation we decided that it makes sense to have fixed length role names within one succinct delegation, by zero-padding the bin number part of the role name, where necessary.

If there is an implicit recommendation in the TAP (you do apply zero padding in the example above; maybe there  should be an explicit recommendation?), then `bit_length: 16` would entail 4 digit bin numbers, i.e. `alice.hbd-0000` to `alice.hbd-ffff`.

With the addition of succinct hashed bins, the delegation will contain:

```
{
  "keys" : {
      KEYID : KEY,
      ...
  },
  "roles" : [
    {
      "name": ROLENAME,
      "keyids" : [ KEYID, ... ] ,
      "threshold" : THRESHOLD,
      ("path_hash_prefixes" : [ HEX_DIGEST, ... ] |
      "paths" : [ PATHPATTERN, ... ]),
      "terminating": TERMINATING,
    },
    ...
  ],
  "succinct_roles" : {
         "keyids" : [ KEYID, ... ] ,
         "threshold" : THRESHOLD,
         "bit_length": BIT_LENGTH,
         "name_prefix": NAME_PREFIX,
     },
}
 ```

 Eventually, the `path_hash_prefixes` field in `roles` MAY be deprecated in favor of `succinct_roles`, but it may be kept for backwards compatibility.

 Using succinct hashed bin delegations, the delegating metadata from the
 motivating example will contain:

 <pre><code>
 "delegations":{ "keys" : {
        abc123 : abcdef123456,
        },
    "succinct_roles" : {
        "keyids" : [ abc123 ] ,
        "threshold" : 1,
        "bit_length": 16,

>         "name_prefix" : "alice.hbd-",

Reviewer 3: 💯  for succinct names!
